Times of India
Ghaziabad man tests positive for novel coronavirusOne more case of novel coronavirus was reported in Ghaziabad in the national capital region (NCR), taking the total number in the country to 30 so far, official sources said on Thursday. Patient is a middle-aged man with a recent travel history to Iran. As of now, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country stands at 30, including 16 Italian tourists. India

Nirbhaya case: Delhi court fixes March 20 as date of execution​
Additional Sessions Judge Dharmendra Rana fixed March 20 as the new date of execution after it was told by the Delhi government that the convicts have exhausted all their legal remedies.
The lawyer for the four death row convicts also told the court that there was no legal impediment for court in proceeding to fix the date of execution.  India

Women's T20 WC: Aus beats South Africa, to face India in finalDefending champions Australia powered into their sixth women's Twenty20 World Cup final on Thursday to meet India after ending South Africa's dreams in a rain-hit semi-final. Set a revised 98 from 13 overs under the DLS method after Australia made 134 for five off their 20 overs, the South Africans managed 92 for five to just miss out on a first-ever final.Sports

Delhi violence: Police arrest Tahir HussainA Delhi court on Thursday dismissed a plea by suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain seeking to surrender before it in connection with the alleged killing of Intelligence Bureau (IB) official Ankit Sharma, after which the police arrested him. Hussain has been booked in the murder case of an IB staffer amid violence over the new citizenship law last week.City



India, EU postpone summit over coronavirusAs European Union institutions in Brussels showed their first cases of coronavirus, India, and the EU postponed the bilateral summit scheduled for March 13. MEA spokesperson said that India and the EU share same concerns about global health. The European Defence Agency and the Council of the European Union both have reported their first cases of coronavirus.India

IIT-Madras' new AI-powered drones may help secure vital locationsInstitute of Technology, Madras, has claimed to have developed an AI-powered drone to counter 'rogue drones' (unregulated unmanned aerial vehicles) ensuring safety at vital locations. The AI-powered system would be an assistance to law enforcement agencies, security and armed forces to secure air space over critical civilian and military installations.

No problem with transfer, says Justice Muralidhar at farewellJustice S Muralidhar on Thursday apprised judges and lawyers about the sequence of communication on his transfer to Punjab and Haryana HC, saying that he was informed about it on Feb 17 and had no problem with it. Controversy erupted over the timing of his transfer which was announced a day after he criticised delay in registering FIRs against three BJP leaders.India

Geo-economics of Basmati rice to determine India, Pak relationsCiting a likely decrease in the flow of Indus waters from India to Pakistan, the book titled "Basmati Rice: The Natural History Geographical Indication" notes that Pakistan will push for aggressive posturing in future as more than 80% of its crops depend on this water for irrigation. Author S Chandrasekaran argues paddy is going to play a key role on both sides.India

Tiktok seeks dismissal of PIL demanding ban on appSocial media app Tiktok has sought dismissal of a plea seeking to ban the app and told the Bombay High Court that there is a laid down procedure under the Information Technology Act to filter any objectionable content online. A PIL,  filed in November 2019 by Heena Darvesh, sought ban on the app claiming that its unfiltered content was causing harm to youth.



COVID-19: This 'govt plan' may be good news for smartphone industryIndia's federal technology ministry has asked electronics and smartphone industry lobby groups to draw up a list of components made in China which then can be airlifted, two of the officials said. China is slowly getting back to work but it is still grappling with logistics delays. Assembly of smartphones is a bright spot for India's otherwise flagging economy.

Ronan Farrow severs ties with Hachette over Woody Allen memoirSlamming publisher Hachette for acquiring Woody Allen's memoir "Apropos of Nothing", journalist and director Woody Allen's estranged son Ronan Farrow has announced that he is ending his association with the company. Grand Central Publishing, a division of Hachette Book Group, acquired the memoir a year ago and will bring it out on April 7, the company said.LifeStyle

7 Congress members suspended for remaining period of Budget sessionLok Sabha on Thursday passed a motion suspending seven Congress members for the remaining period of the Budget session for their "gross misconduct" after they snatched papers from the Speaker's table. Meenakshi Lekhi, who was presiding the House, named Gaurav Gogoi, T N Prathapan, Dean Kuriakose, Manicka Tagore, Rajmohan Unnithan, Benny Behanan and Gurjeet Aujla.India

2020 Honda Africa Twin launched, starts at Rs 15.35 lakhHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India launched the 2020 edition of its superbike Africa Twin Adventure Sports. The BS-VI compliant model now is powered by a bigger 1,084 cc, parallel-twin engine, while being mated to manual and DCT (automatic) transmissions. The manual version is priced at Rs 15.35 lakh, while the DCT trim is tagged at Rs 16.10 lakh (ex-showroom).Auto

UK court rejects Nirav Modi's bail plea for fifth timeA UK court on Thursday rejected for the fifth time the bail plea of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who is fighting his extradition to India on charges over the nearly $2 billion PNB fraud and money laundering case. The 49-year-old is lodged in a south-west London prison since his arrest in March last year and is scheduled for an extradition trial in May.Business



16,076 on board ships from China stopped at Indian portsAs many as 16,076 crew and passengers onboard ships from China or having travel history to affected countries have not been allowed to disembark at Indian ports, a shipping ministry official said. However, all possible assistance is being provided to them -- onboard 452 ships anchored at designated places -- as per WHO guidelines in case of any fever or symptoms.India

LG visits riot-hit areas of northeast Delhi; takes stock of situationLieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday visited the riot-affected areas of northeast Delhi and took stock of the situation there. Baijal held a review meeting with officials on several issues, including security. He also held a meeting with peace committees in northeast Delhi. Delhi Police has registered 531 FIRs and arrested or detained 1,647 people.City

Over half a dozen Indian-Americans win Congressional primariesOver half a dozen Indian-Americans, including incumbent Congressmen Ami Bera and Ro Khanna and two women, have won primaries for the House of Representatives elections in Nov. In California, incumbents Bera and Khanna registered an easy win in their Congressional Districts. Both are from the Democratic party. Bera, 55, is seeking his fifth consecutive term.World

Ram temple trust opens bank account in AyodhyaExactly a month after the Ram Mandir trust was set up by the Centre, a bank account was formally opened in the name of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust on Thursday at State Bank of India’s Ayodhya branch. The first deposit in the zero-balance current account will be from donations of the past 15 days in the collection box at Ram Lalla makeshift temple.India

Iran says limit using paper money to avoid coronavirus spread Iran's health minister on Thursday encouraged the public to reduce its use of paper money as it is aiding the spread of COVID-19 and said authorities will begin manning checkpoints to limit travel between major cities in the Islamic Republic. Saeed Namaki added that schools and universities will remain closed through Nowruz, Persian New Year, on March 20.Business



What doctors treating Covid-19 in Wuhan say about coronavirusSince January, doctors at the outbreak's epicentre in Wuhan have been studying the virus whose effects are mostly mild but can occasionally turn deadly. As per Wuhan doctors, incubation period for this virus is five to seven days, with the longest being 14 days. COVID-19 has a relatively low fatality rate and has largely claimed the lives of older patients.World

PM Modi hails women's contributions in different fieldsPM Modi on Thursday hailed women's contribution in different fields, saying woman power is securing the country and that he has been getting many motivating stories on exceptional women achievers. Modi had on Tuesday said that he will be handing over his social media accounts to 'women who inspire', to mark Women's Day on March 8.India

Delhi HC's adjournment of hate speech case unjustified: SCThe SC asked the Delhi HCto fast-track hearing on PILs seeking registration of FIRs against BJP functionaries Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma for making allegedly inflammatory speeches.  The court also observed that the adjournment in the high court for a long period was unjustified. India

'Trade impact of corona for India estimated at $348 million'The trade impact of the coronavirus epidemic for India is estimated to be about $348 million. Among the most affected economies are the European Union ($15.6 billion), the United States ($5.8 billion), Japan ($5.2 billion), South Korea ($3.8 billion), Taiwan Province of China ($2.6 billion) and Vietnam ($2.3 billion).Business

Coronavirus: Fourteen Italians shifted to Gurgaons's Medanta HospitalThe fourteen Italians, who have tested positive for coronavirus, have been shifted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon from an ITBP quarantine centre. The hospital issued a statement on Thursday morning, saying these patients are housed on a completely separate floor, which has been quarantined and has no contact with the rest of the hospital.India



EPFO cuts interest rate on deposits to 8.5% for 2019-20Retirement fund body EPFO on Thursday lowered interest rate on provident fund deposits to 8.5% for the current financial year. The EPFO had provided 8.65% rate of interest on EPF for 2018-19 to its around six crore subscribers. Now, the labour ministry requires the finance ministry's concurrence on the matter. Business

India’s $476 billion firepower may arrest rupee’s ‘panic’ dropAuthorities may deploy some of the stockpile to steady the rupee, which has tumbled more than 2% over the past week as more locals are diagnosed with the coronavirus. The currency is the worst performer in Asia this month after having escaped relatively unscathed in February when most regional peers were hit by the contagion.Business

Coronavirus fear goes viral: Why you shouldn’t panicAmidst coronavirus scare, running scared will not help but taking precautions will. Delhi govt has said that it has started setting up isolation wards in 25 hospitals and has ordered 3.5 lakh masks. Over 8,000 separation kits have been readied for staff treating coronavirus patients. In case of cough, fever and breathlessness, contact a healthcare professional.City

Another Delhi resident among 23 who tested +ve on WednesdayA 26-year-old Paytm employee, a resident of Pankha Road in Janakpuri, became the second Delhi resident to contract Covid-19. He had recently returned from a vacation in Italy, a coronavirus hotspot.  The man worked at the company’s Gurgaon office, which has been shut for 15 days.India

'Very homesick' Wuhan residents trickle back to coronavirus-hit cityWuhan has been largely cut off from the outside world since January 23, when China's government imposed an unprecedented lockdown of central Hubei province. But, some Hubei residents trapped outside the province by the containment measures are slowly trickling back to their sequestered families, believing that home is now as safe as anywhere.World



Realme 6, Realme 6 Pro launched in India, price starts at Rs 12,999Realme has launched Realme 6 and Realme 6 Pro smartphones in India with a starting price tag of Rs 12,999. Both the smartphones will be available online on Flipkart and Realme.in. Both the smartphones come with 30W Flash Charge support, quad-camera setup and 90Hz refresh rate display.

China's grand Belt and Road plan is being lashed by CoronavirusXi Jinping's Belt and Road Initiative has long been seen as a way to project China's influence around the world. Now, the coronavirus is showing how the trade and infrastructure program can help export the country's troubles. The deadly outbreak is prompting delays and disruptions to China's construction and investment plans overseas.World

Coronavirus: 'India in touch with Iran to evacuate its nationals'India is in touch with Iran on possible evacuation of Indian pilgrims and students stuck in the coronavirus-hit nation, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. The minister said the government is following up with Iran to tie-up evacuation of Indian pilgrims and students stranded in Tehran and Qom as per need. India

SC to set up vacation bench during 7-day Holi breakThe Supreme Court on Thursday said it will set up a vacation bench for the seven-day Holi break to hear urgent matters. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it will not be on the day of Holi but during the week. Till now, the apex court had a vacation bench during the summer break of nearly two months.India

Facebook contractor tests positive for coronavirus, Seattle office shutThis is the second such case reported at any tech giant in the US, after an Amazon worker in Seattle was found infected with the new coronavirus this week. According to Tracy Clayton, a Facebook spokesperson, a contractor based in the Stadium East Office was diagnosed with coronavirus. All Facebook sites have been asked to work from home until March 31.World



SC quashes RBI order, paves way for cryptocurrency tradeThe verdict would allow companies in the sector to use the banking platform to trade and transact in cryptocurrency. The central bank had contended that allowing cryptocurrency (bitcoins) compromised the integrity of the banking system. Business

First human-to-animal infection: Pet dog infected with COVID-19The canine, which belongs to a 60-year-old woman patient, had repeatedly tested "weak positive" for the new coronavirus since Friday, when it was quarantined at an animal centre. New measures put in place by Hong Kong's government last Friday mean all pets infected with the coronavirus must be quarantined for 14 days. Two dogs are already in isolation.World

Microsoft asks staff in US to work from home as coronavirus spreadsMicrosoft Corp on Wednesday joined the growing number of US companies asking employees to work from home in order to limit exposure to the spreading coronavirus outbreak, as it responded to cases near its Seattle headquarters and in California. Microsoft also asked employees to suspend any business travel to the areas "unless essential for the continuity of Microsoft."Business

Coronavirus: 290 million students out of school as virus spreadsAlmost 300 million students worldwide faced weeks at home on Thursday with Italy the latest country to shut schools over the deadly new coronavirus, as the IMF urged an all-out, global offensive against the epidemic. More than 95,000 people have been infected and over 3,200 have died worldwide from the virus, which has now reached some 80 countries and territories.World

Thousands held on cruise ship off California over coronavirus fearsThousands were stranded on a cruise ship off the California coast Wednesday over fears of the new coronavirus after passengers and crew members on board developed symptoms. Officials delayed the return of the Grand Princess to San Francisco on Wednesday night from Hawaii in order to carry out testing on board for those potentially infected.World



Women's T20 World Cup: Washed-out SF sends India into finalLed by Harmanpreet Kaur, India had topped Group A with four victories in as many matches, which meant they went through as England had finished second in Group B with three wins and a defeat.Sports

All-India judicial service? 50% of HCs object to planMore than 50% of high courts in the country have opposed the Centre’s proposal to constitute an All India Judicial Service to recruit judges at the level of district judges. The Centre’s proposal has been pending since 2012 when it had suggested creation of an all-India service on the lines of recruitment of IAS/IPS officers by the Union Public Service Commission.India

Why Oxford dictionary is being called sexistOn Tuesday, leaders of Women’s Aid and the Women’s Equality Party condemned some Oxford Dictionaries’ use of synonyms such as “bitch” and “maid” when defining the word “woman”. The letter points out that the definition for “man” includes statements such as “a person with the qualities associated with males, such as bravery, spirit, or toughness”.Science

‘Exciting’ new particle to solve dark matter riddle?Nuclear physicists at the University of York have identified an “exciting” new particle which they are putting forward as a candidate to explain the formation of dark matter. They have named it the “d-star hexaquark”.Science

California declares emergency over coronavirus as death toll rises in USThe first California death from coronavirus was an elderly person in Placer County, near Sacramento, taking the total death toll to 11 in the US. It was the first coronavirus fatality in the United States outside of Washington state, where 10 people have died in a cluster of at least 39 infections.World



James Bond movie postponed for November release amid Corona threatThe global release of the new James Bond film 'No Time to Die' was postponed on Wednesday by seven months amid the coronavirus disruption that has closed movie theatres in China and caused widespread headaches for other Hollywood productions.Entertainment

Doctors try gene-editing inside human body to cure blindnessA patient recently had it done at the Casey Eye Institute at Oregon Health & Science University in Portland for an inherited form of blindness, the companies that make the treatment announced on Wednesday. They would not give details on the patient or when the surgery occurred.Science

Coronavirus cases spread across globe, countries gear upEven as the number of cases in China, where the virus appeared first, showed signs of receding, globally COVID-19 has led to disruptions as new cases are being reported from several countries. Meanwhile, the number of coronavirus cases in India is now at 29, including 16 Italians touring through Rajasthan. Also, seventeen Indians abroad have been infected.India

Jet ex-promoter Naresh detained by ED, booked for launderingThe ED has been probing Jet and Naresh Goyal under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) and was considering filing a money laundering case. The agency, which is probing Jet’s financial deals of the last 12 years, has quizzed Goyal over a dozen times in the Fema case.India

China’s created aura of military might without combat: Army chiefThe Army Chief, MM Naravane said that, “China has not been involved in real, hardcore combat for a few decades now; yet the regular showcasing of its military might have created this aura of China being the undisputed military leader in key technological domains — with deterrence logic of its own."India



MP govt staves off crisis as 6 MLAs return to CongressSix of the 10 ‘missing’ MLAs were back in the Kamal Nath fold by Wednesday afternoon. But four are still ‘missing’ and reported to be cooped up in bungalows in Whitefield, Bengaluru. All other ruling alliance MLAs are accounted for, says Congress.India


NDTV


Congress MLA Hardeep Singh Dang, Among 4 Missing Madhya Pradesh Legislators, Resigns From Assembly

The Supreme Court Thursday sought response from the Uttar Pradesh government on a plea seeking transfer of Hindu Samaj Party leader Kamlesh Tiwari murder case from Lucknow to Delhi.

A complaint of cheating was lodged against Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty Kundra, her husband Raj Kundra and others for allegedly defrauding an investor in a gold scheme, the police said on Thursday.

The country's apex consumer commission, NCDRC, has asked Tata Motors to pay Rs 3.5 lakh towards compensation and punitive damages for misleading advertisements making false mileage claims regarding its car Tata Indigo.

The popular Mughal Gardens will be closed for public from Saturday in view of the coronavirus outbreak, Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Thursday

Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei said the Indian government "should confront extremist Hindus" and "stop the massacre of Muslims" in a sharply-worded tweet on Thursday referring to last week's violence in northeast Delhi in which 53 were killed.

Days after parts of northeast Delhi were left scarred by horrific violence over the citizenship law, scary details of a pitched battle between a small group of cops and hundreds of stone-throwing goons have emerged

In the list of India's top holiday destinations, Goa continues to sit firmly on the number one spot. It remains a popular choice not just for a beach vacation, but also destination weddings, music festivals, foodie hotspots and as a monsoon getaway too.

A UK court on Thursday rejected for the fifth time the bail plea of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who is fighting his extradition to India on charges over the nearly USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case.

The Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry has asked all states and union territories to undertake a massive awareness campaign on novel coronavirus (COVID-19) among students across the country.

The Supreme Court Thursday said it would examine the legal issue arising out of the Nirbhaya gang rape and murder case on whether there could be separate hanging in a case where there are more than one death row convicts.

The government on Thursday asserted there is no shortage of raw ingredients or medicines in the country for next three months and a group of ministers is monitoring the situation on a daily basis to ensure preparedness for the challenge posed by the coronavirus outbreak.

The number of deaths in last week's northeast Delhi violence over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has risen to 53.

One more person tested positive for coronavirus today, taking the number of affected persons to 30. The figure had taken a jump yesterday with a group of 14 Italian tourists testing positive for the virus. The rising number of cases has pushed the Delhi government to shut the primary schools till March 30. A similar decision is likely for the secondary section once the exams are over, the government has hinted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi postponed his next week's visit to Brussels, Belgium for the India-European Union summit. The foreign ministry said both nations agreed to this in view of the outbreak. The global trade association of airlines, the International Air Transport Association or IATA said depending on how the #coronavirus spreads, airline industry could face up to $113 billion in lost revenues this year.

Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said the Chipi Airport at Sindhudurg district will be operational from May 1.
